And so now we made a video game.
There's a couple of things that I want you
to keep in mind and take away from this.
Unity, first of all,
is great for making games.
But it can also be used for so many
other things in so many other verticals.
Unity can be used for
simulations and product demos.
It can be used in lots of AR and
VR applications.
And Unity really is just finding its way
into more and more surprising places.
The really cool thing about Unity is that
you can deploy your projects to a wide
variety of platforms.
I mean, you saw how easily
it was to deploy to WebGL.
Unity allows you to write your code once,
and
then you can pretty easily
port it to other places.
You do have to do platform
specific integrations, say for
achievements on different consoles or
steam or something like that.
But it's pretty easy to take the same game
and make it fit into different places.
I want you to remember to think in
terms of Unity's component based
architecture and
try to favor composition over other
approaches to code diversification
such as inheritance.
So you wanna put components together
to get that emergent behavior and
have them interact with one another.
That's kinda how you wanna
try to think about Unity
architecture as much as you can.
Another really great thing about Unity
is that you can leverage the community,
the asset store, the documentation.
And in my opinion, this really is
the true advantage of Unity over other
game engines, Unity is incredibly
robust and feature full and powerful.
But really it's community and
the asset store and
all of its great documentation
that I think in my
own personal opinion,
gives it a slight edge.
And then the last thing I want
you to remember is that game
development is a huge and
very interdisciplinary topic.
And just Unity on its own, even within
the context of game development,
is still a huge application and
a huge ecosystem.
So what we saw today was kind of a golden
path to creating a very simple game,
but as you can imagine, there's so
much more to learn and explore.
Like we didn't add any kind
of like particle effects.
There was no multiplayer.
We didn't add sound to the game.
I mean, there's so many other things
that you can do with Unity, and so
many other systems that we we can touch.
But yeah, I encourage you to learn and
explore as much as you can.
So are there any questions
from anyone here or
anyone in the chat who made a video game?
Yeah.
>> I had a question specifically in
the context of the web when
you have a project that grows,
that becomes very large.
Does Unity have any tool sets to kind
of offload where the assets get stored?
Are there some other location?
>> Yeah, very much.
So there's a number of different tools for
that.
I mean, one is just called asset bundles.
I mean asset bundles are used to kind of
like split up just the different stuff in
the game so that it's not one giant file
attached to your exit executable file.
So, I mean, that's one thing,
just to split it up on disk.
But yeah, absolutely, you can stream
assets from any source that you want to,
and in fact, that's a really
powerful way to also design games.
A lot of games will connect up their
stats to even just like a Google sheet.
And you can import values for,
say different items in your game
using just a spreadsheet and
kinda going through the numbers.
So, there's lots of different ways that
other things can connect into Unity.
And yeah, you can certainly
stream assets from a server.
It's more complicated, but
certainly something that happens often.
Yeah.
>> Regarding scenes,
let's say if we wanted to add a home menu
before you load into the game, would
that be something you would do with a
canvas that makes the camera look at a UI?
Or make an entire separate scene and
have the game menu unconnected?
>> Both approaches are valid.
In a game this simple,
I would just create a new full
screen canvas that is shown and
gets hidden.
But in more complicated games,
if you have a game with say,
multiple levels, or you're streaming
in an open world in chunks.
And you have a lot more code to
manage those scenes, then, yeah,
absolutely, you could put
menus in different scenes.
There's really no right or
wrong answer there.
It really just,
it's kind of project dependent.
>> Is it possible to access some of
these game objects with JavaScript?
>> Possible probably.
How you would do that?
I don't know.
But I mean, Unity is such [LAUGH]
a big ecosystem of stuff.
I'm sure somebody has done
that somewhere at some point.
[LAUGH] No, I've never tried that myself.
>> Should we prevent their game
from restarting during running?
Like, if you hit Space during the game and
it restarts?
>> Probably, I'm curious,
is that what's happening right now?
Cuz I think that is prevented,
but let's see.
So if I hit Space, yeah, that will
just reset the position of the player.
So, yeah, that would probably
be a good thing to improve.
[LAUGH] I mean right now
it just resets the position
of the player and resets the scores.
But yeah, let's try that right now.
Let's do a little bit of live coding,
which is always risky.
So let's see.
So, if the game's not playing,
we just return, right?
So what we would need to do is actually
make that like a static property.
So we could have a public static Boolean,
we say GameIsPlaying.
And we will set that to this value,
which is also going to
need to become static.
So let's just try that.
So where are we resetting that?
Let's see at the Collectible.
So under reset position we'll
say GameManager.GameIsPlaying.
And so if the game is not playing,
And this may or may not work.
We are trying this out.
So if the game is not playing, don't
reset the position of the collectible.
Same thing here for the players.
And then I think we need to
do that in score as well.
So let's try that out.
Okay, and then yeah,
we don't wanna reset the score.
So if GameManager.GameIsPlaying,
It's not playing, right?
Yeah, not playing.
Let's see if that worked.
I don't know if this will.
So now if we play, Hit Space to start.
If I hit the spacebar,
nothing is happening and
we'll just run out the game
clock more quickly here.
So if we set that to 5 seconds, I
hit Space and the game stops.
We should be able to,
now just continues, it doesn't reset it.
So didn't quite work, but
yeah, that was a good catch
cuz that is definitely
a bug in a production game.
It should be addressed for sure.
There are other questions?
>> Just the titles,
when the screen sizes are changing,
can you have them so
that proportionally you can stay?
>> Are you talking about the UI?
>> Yeah, just the UI stuff.
Yeah, just because we have it changing
on different resolutions, right?
>> Yeah, I mean, if we change-
>> That means all these
symbol are there, right?
>> Yeah, I mean If you change the
resolution of the game, it should, yeah,
reset the UI.
I mean, that's part of the power of
the UI system is that we had those anchor
points and we're kind of setting
where we want those to be on screen.
And we're also auto sizing the text
between that min and max that we set.
>> I just saw it when compiled, I think
there resolutions got pretty way off.
>> Yeah, I think that has to do
with the capture resolution.
Although, I'm not entirely
sure if that's the case.
Yeah, if I hit this 4K, yeah-
>> They're gonna get to resize that.
>> They're gonna get to really tiny.
There should be a way,
if we go to the canvas let's see,
we can change the canvas
to Scale with Screen Size.
So that's probably a little bit better.
And if we resize that,
what would that look like?
Yeah, that'll keep it pretty large.
So yeah, I mean, that could be
a potential way to mitigate that if
you change the canvas scale or
to scale with screen size.
So yeah, so also a good improvement there.
Well, that's it.
That's all I got.
Thanks for listening.
>> [APPLAUSE]